Adds new page about triaging alerts with AI Assistant (#4359)
elastic/security-docs: docs/assistant/ai-alert-triage.asciidoc

[[assistant-triage]]
= Triage Alerts with Elastic AI Assistant

> Elastic AI Assistant can help you enhance and streamline your alert triage workflows. 

Author: Not supposed to use an article! Thanks though :)

AI Assistant can help you interpret an alert and understand its context. When you view an alert in {elastic-sec}, details such as related documents, host, and users appear alongside a synopsis of the events that triggered the alert. This data provides a starting point for understanding a potential threat. AI Assistant can answer questions about this data and offer insights and actionable recommendations to remediate the issue.

[discrete]
== Use AI Assistant to triage an alert
. First, choose an alert to investigate. Click **View details**.
. On the details flyout, click **Chat** to launch the AI assistant.
. Data related to the selected alert is automatically added to the prompt. Click **Alert (from summary)** to view which alert fields will be shared with AI Assistant. (For more information about selecting which fields to send, and to learn about anonymizing your data, refer to <<security-assistant, AI Assistant>>.)

> . You can click a quick prompt to use it as a starting point for your query, for example **Alert summarization**. You can improve the quality of AI Assistant's response by customizing the prompt and adding detail. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. (Optional) Click a quick prompt to use it as a starting point for your query, for example **Alert summarization**. Improve the quality of AI Assistant's response by customizing the prompt and adding detail. 
```

> . Once you’ve submitted your query, the AI Assistant will process the information and provide a detailed response. Depending on your prompt and which alert data you included, its response can include a thorough analysis of the alert that highlights key elements such as the nature of the potential threat, potential impact, and suggested response actions.

Reviewer: Removing "the" here to keep it consistent with the way you wrote the feature name in step 4. Also removed the numbering for this step because the content describes the result of the previous action, not a new action that users need to take.

```suggestion
+
Once you’ve submitted your query, AI Assistant will process the information and provide a detailed response. Depending on your prompt and the alert data that you included, its response can include a thorough analysis of the alert that highlights key elements such as the nature of the potential threat, potential impact, and suggested response actions.
+
```

> . Remember, the response is not a static report; you can ask follow-up questions, provide additional information for further analysis, and request clarification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. (Optional) Ask AI Assistant follow-up questions, provide additional information for further analysis, and request clarification. The response is not a static report.
```

[discrete]
[[ai-triage-reportgen]]
== Generate triage reports

> Elastic AI Assistant can streamline the process of documentation and report generation, helping you provide stakeholders clear records of security incidents, including their scope and impact, and your remediation efforts. You can use AI Assistant to create summaries or reports that include key event details, findings, and diagrams. Once the AI Assistant has finished analyzing one or more alerts, you can generate reports by using prompts such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Elastic AI Assistant can streamline the documentation and report generation process by providing clear records of security incidents, their scope and impact, and your remediation efforts. You can use AI Assistant to create summaries or reports for stakeholders that include key event details, findings, and diagrams. Once the AI Assistant has finished analyzing one or more alerts, you can generate reports by using prompts such as:
```

* “Generate a detailed report about this incident including timeline, impact analysis, and response actions. Also, include a diagram of events.”
* “Generate a summary of this incident/alert and include diagrams of events.”
* “Provide more details on the mitigation strategies used.”

> After reviewing the report, you can add it to a case to keep a record and make it available to your team by clicking **Add to existing case** at the top of AI Assistant's response:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After reviewing the report, clicking **Add to existing case** at the top of AI Assistant's response. This will allow you to keep a record of the report and make it available to your team.
```

[[assistant-triage]]

> = Triage Alerts with Elastic AI Assistant

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
= Triage alerts with Elastic AI Assistant
```

Elastic AI Assistant can help you enhance and streamline your alert triage workflows by assessing multiple recent alerts in your environment, and helping you interpret an alert and its context. 

When you view an alert in {elastic-sec}, details such as related documents, hosts, and users appear alongside a synopsis of the events that triggered the alert. This data provides a starting point for understanding a potential threat. AI Assistant can answer questions about this data and offer insights and actionable recommendations to remediate the issue.

> To enable AI Assistant to answer questions about alerts, you need to provide alert data as context for your prompts. You can either provide multiple alerts using the <<configure-ai-assistant, knowledge base>> feature, or provide individual alerts directly.

Reviewer 3: nit: is it possible for the `knowledge base` links to jump to a KB-specific anchor? (I'm wondering if it's a quirk of the docs preview)

Author: Yes 100%. I am planning to do this but I have to merge the updates to the AI Assistant page before I can link to that section.

> To enable AI Assistant to answer questions about alerts, you need to provide alert data as context for your prompts. You can either provide multiple alerts using the <<configure-ai-assistant, knowledge base>> feature, or provide individual alerts directly.

Author: ```suggestion
To enable AI Assistant to answer questions about alerts, you need to provide alert data as context for your prompts. You can either provide multiple alerts using the <<ai-assistant-knowledge-base, knowledge base>> feature, or provide individual alerts directly.
```

[[ai-assistant-triage-alerts-knowledge-base]]
[discrete]
== Use AI Assistant to triage multiple alerts
Enable the <<configure-ai-assistant, knowledge base>> **Alerts** setting to send AI Assistant data for up to 100 alerts as context for each of your prompts. With this setting enabled, you can ask AI Assistant questions such as "How many alerts are present in my environment?", "What are my most urgent alerts?", "Which alerts should I triage first?", "Do any of the alerts in my environment indicate data exfiltration from a Windows machine?", and more. 

> For more information, refer to <<configure-ai-assistant, knowledge base>>.

Author: ```suggestion
For more information, refer to <<ai-assistant-knowledge-base, knowledge base>>.
```

[[ai-assistant-triage-alerts-instructions]]
[discrete]
== Use AI Assistant to triage a specific alert
Once you have chosen an alert to investigate:

. Click its **View details** button from the Alerts table.
. In the alert details flyout, click **Chat** to launch the AI assistant. Data related to the selected alert is automatically added to the prompt. 
. Click **Alert (from summary)** to view which alert fields will be shared with AI Assistant.
+

> NOTE: For more information about selecting which fields to send, and to learn about anonymizing your data, refer to <<security-assistant, AI Assistant>>.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NOTE: For more information about selecting which fields to send, and to learn about anonymizing your data, refer to <<security-assistant, AI Assistant>>.
```

+
. (Optional) Click a quick prompt to use it as a starting point for your query, for example **Alert summarization**. Improve the quality of AI Assistant's response by customizing the prompt and adding detail. 
+
Once you’ve submitted your query, AI Assistant will process the information and provide a detailed response. Depending on your prompt and the alert data that you included, its response can include a thorough analysis of the alert that highlights key elements such as the nature of the potential threat, potential impact, and suggested response actions.
+

> . (Optional) Ask AI Assistant follow-up questions, provide additional information for further analysis, and request clarification. The response is not a static report.

Reviewer 3: thanks for including this helpful advice!
